list of common superuser (root) commands in Linux along with their definitions

1. sudo - Allows a permitted user to execute a command as the superuser or another user.
    Example: sudo apt-get update

2.su - Switches the current user to another user. By default, it switches to the root user
    Example: su

3.passwd - Used to change the user password. When used by the root user, it can change the password of any user.
    Example: passwd username

4.chown - Changes the ownership of files or directories.
    Example: chown user:group file.txt

5.chmod - Changes the permissions of a file or directory
    Example: chmod 755 file.txt

6.visudo - Edits the /etc/sudoers file in a safe way to configure sudo privileges
    Example: visudo 

7.useradd - Creates a new user account
    Example: useradd username

8.usermod - Modifies a user account, such as changing the group membership or shell.
    Example: usermod -aG groupname username

9.userdel - Deletes a user account and associated file
    Example: Deletes a user account and associated file

10.service - Manages services on a system, such as starting, stopping, or restarting them.
    Example: service apache2 start

11.systemctl - Controls the systemd system and service manager. It can start, stop, enable, disable services, and more.
    Example: systemctl restart apache2

12.reboot - Reboots the system.
    Example: Reboot

13.shutdown -Shuts down or reboots the system.
    Example: shutdown -h now 

14.apt-get -Package manager for Debian-based systems. Used for installing, updating, and removing packages.
    Example: sudo apt-get install package-name

15.fdisk - Partition table manipulator for Linux. Used to create, delete, and modify partitions on a disk.
    Example:  fdisk /dev/sda

16.mkfs - Used to create a filesystem on a device.
    Example: mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda1

17.mount - Mounts a filesystem to a specified directory
    Example: mount /dev/sda1 /mnt

18.umount - Unmouunts a mounted filesystem 
    Example: umount /mnt

19.kill - Sends a signal to a process, often to terminate it.
    Example: kill 1234  

20.netstat -Displays network connections, routing tables, and interface statistics.
    Example: netstat -tuln

21.iptables - Manages the Linux kernel firewall rules.
    Example: iptables -L

22.firewalld - Manages firewall with firewalld service in Linux.
    Example: firewall-cmd --state

23.scp - Securely copies files between hosts over a network.
    Example: scp file.txt user@remote:/path/to/destination

24.ss - Another tool to investigate sockets, similar to netstat, but more efficient.
    Example: ss -tuln

25.hostnamectl - Used to set the system hostname and related settings.
    Example: hostnamectl set-hostname newhostname

26.grep - Searches text using patterns.
    Example: grep "search_term" /path/to/file

27.journalctl - Views logs collected by systemd
    Example: journalctl -xe

28.dmesg - Prints kernel ring buffer messages, often used for debugging hardware issues.
    Example: dmesg | grep error

29.blkid - Locates and displays block device attributes, including the UUIDs of filesystems.
    Example: blkid /dev/sda1

30.sysctl - Modifies kernel parameters at runtime.
    Example: sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
